In this video, we will use the basic concept you learned from previous
videos and bring it all together to enable an understanding of
the phenomenas for photovoltaic energy
conversion that needs to be balanced to create
an efficient solar cell. The learnings from this video
will also enable you to understand the advantage
of advanced solar cells. In this video, we will start by looking at the overall process in a solar cell and
afterward go through the individual processes
in greater detail, and at the end, we will sum up. In this slide, a typical
industrial solar cell is shown. The solar cell is made of a p-doped wafer with the
top part being n-doped, the n-region is heavily doped Whereas the p-region is
more moderately doped. The top surface is called the emitter since it emits electrons. N-type cells with P-doped top
layer can also be made. However, p-type have until
now been dominantly, mostly due to historical reasons. The first step in Photovoltaic
Energy Conversion is that the light is entering
the solar sun surface. At the surface, a
smaller fraction of the light is reflected and the rest is refracted or
passed into the solar cell. When light passes
through the solar cell, most of the light is absorbed. Longer wavelengths are generally penetrating deeper
into the sample, and a minor fraction of
the longer wavelengths is transmitted through
the solar cell.  When a photon is absorbed
and electron-hole pair is created. If the electron-hole pair is created in the n-region. The hole is a so-called
minority carrier and needs to diffuse to the space charge region where it separates and become
a majority carrier. Similarly, if the
electron-hole pair is created in the
p-type material, the electron needs to diffuse to the space charge region to
become a majority carrier. When the charge carriers
are minority carriers, the chance of recombination
is rather high. When the charge carriers are separated in the
space charge region, they'll move to the
contacts and further to the interconnection wires that will bring the current to a load. Let's take a deeper
look into reflection. Until now, we have only
considered light as photons, which are particles that
are quantized in energy. But light can also be
described as a light wave with an oscillating electric
and magnetic field in a perpendicular directions. The wave is characterized by the wavelength and the frequency. The product of these two
is the speed of light, which is 300,000 kilometers
per second in a vacuum. When light enters a medium, the speed of light is decreased
with a factor of n, which is known as the refractive
index of the material. The refractive index is
wavelength-dependent in general and for silicon
69
00:02:41,470 --> 00:02:43,795
the solar average
value is around 4, whereas it is one for air
and around 1.45 for glass. As a result, the light
is refracted and changes slightly direction according to Snell's Law in the material. At normal incidence, meaning that the light entering
perpendicular to the surface, the reflection and
transmittance for a single optically
thick layer can be determined from the
stated equation. It can be seen that the
reflection is minimized if the differences in refractive
indices are reduced. For other angles, the full Fresnel equations can be used for flat surfaces, and these dramatically
increase the complexity. To reduce surface reflections, the ultimate solution is to have a gradually increasing
refractive index. But if only one layer can be used as an
anti-reflective coating, the optimum refractive
index is the square root of the product of the interfacing
refractive indices. Texturing the surface also
reduces the reflection. Since a lot of the
reflected light can be recaptured and therefore, most solar cells have
textured surfaces. The stated reflection
and transmission coefficients are valid for
so-called seek optical layers, Where the thickness
of the layer is much greater than the
wavelength of the light. If the thickness of the
layer is similar to the wavelengths interference occurs. Recall that Light is electric
and magnetic fields oscillating
in space and time. The total field is sum of
the fields of multiple waves. Therefore, if two waves are
180 degrees out of phase, then reflection can vanish. This phase lag can
for one wavelength be created making the
wave a a reflection point travel half a wavelength longer than the wave
reflected at the top surface. Therefore, the
optimum thickness of an anti-reflective coating is an uneven number of quarter wavelengths in
the relevant medium. However, this optimization, and it's only valid for
one wavelength, and since sunlight consists
of multiple wavelengths, the center wavelengths
from sunlight are used. When light enters the material, it is absorbed in a
depth in the material, and then an electron-hole pair is generated as shown
in the animation. The light intensity in the material follows
an exponential decay. This decay is called
Lambert-Beer's law, and alpha in the equation is
called the absorption coefficient and is strongly wavelength and
material dependent. For the case of silicon, the absorption
coefficient is high for short wavelengths and low
for longer wavelengths, close to but above the band gap. In the figure to the left, 99 percent absorption depth for silicon is plotted as a
function of wavelength. As you can see, wavelengths below 400 nanometers is absorbed
within the first micron. However, 200 microns
is required for the near-infrared wavelengths
at 850 nanometers. For even longer wavelengths, some of the light is
actually transmitted, and thus means for
preventing this, light escape is done. For semiconductors and for photons with higher
energies and the band gap, absorption of a photon results in generation of an
electron-hole pair. In the plot to the right, the generation rate is
shown as a function of depth into the substrate
based on a simulation. On the right axis, you can see the percentage
of incoming photons absorbed normalized to the absorption at a thickness of 200 microns. The absorption depths, together with
technological limitations, set the thickness
for solar cells. Textured surfaces can enable
that the light enters the solar cell at an angle and thereby increasing the
optical path length, and this path length enhancement can reduce the thickness
of the solar cell. When electron-hole
pairs are generated, the minority carrier needs to diffuse to the space
charge region to become a majority carrier before the minority
carrier recombine. Recall from the previous
video that there's no electric field outside
the space charge region, and therefore, there's
almost no force driving the minority carrier
to the space charge region. If the electron-hole pair is
generated in the n-region, the hole is the minority carrier and the electron is
the majority carrier, and vice versa for the p-region. The further away from the space charge region the electron-hole
pair is generated, the smaller the probability for the electron-hole pair to be collected and contribute
to the photocurrent. Let's take a close
look at some examples. If the electron-hole
pair is generated at the very top surface
of the solar cell, there might be a very
high density of dangling bonds acting as
recombination traps, therefore the electron-hole
pair will likely recombine before it's
collected at the contacts. If the electron-hole pair is generated in the
space charge region, there's an immediate
electric field to separate the charges, and these pairs
will be collected. If the electron-hole
pair is generated somewhere in either
the p or n-region, but within the diffusion length
to the space charge region, of the minority carrier, in this
example of the electron, will need to diffuse to the space charge
region and there is a high probability that the electron-hole pair
will be collected. If the electron-hole pair
is generated at a distance outside the diffusion length from the space charge region, the collection probability is low and the chance of
recombination is high. The figure summarizes
the concept that generation of electron-hole
pairs is highest closest to the surface and the collection
probability is high at the space charge
region and decreases exponentially with
increasing distance from the space charge region. As we learned in the
previous lecture, the diffusion length decreases with increasing doping density, and thus the diffusion
length compared to the optical absorption depth is decisive for the
doping density, still keeping in mind that high doping gives high voltage. The interface between
the metal and the semiconductor is a
significant recombination site. This is a result of metals
having a large density of allowed electronic states within the band gap of
the semiconductor. These interfaces are
not carrier-selective, but a number of tricks can be done to keep either
the electron or hole away from the metal and
thus minimize recombination. One of the tricks
involves reducing the overall contact area between the metal and
the semiconductor, thereby lowering the area
in which this type of recombination takes place to small local points
in the solar cell. Another trick involves
high doping of the semiconductor in
the interface region. Now the region between the
highly-doped and low-doped semiconductor acts just
like a p-n junction, where an electrical
field forms and drives the minority carriers away
from the metal contact. This is also known as
the back surface field. So far, we have, in great detail, looked at the electron-hole pair generation and the transport of charge carriers in the vertical direction
of the solar cell. We also need to look at how the current is collected
in the contact grid. In most industrial
silicon solar cells, there is a front contact
grid consisting of so-called busbars and fingers that is collecting the current. This grid is made of highly
conductive material, usually, a fired silver paste. This silver paste is blocking further light absorption where
it covers the solar cell. As charge carriers are created, they will once have to
become majority carriers, be transported to the fingers, and then via the
fingers to the busbars, where the current will be
collected to the leads. The front grid needs to be
optimized in order to balance the resistive losses
and the loss of photocurrent due to shading
from the front grid. The more front cross-section, the lower the resistance, but the more shading. In the lateral directions, the current densities increases linearly with the distances, and therefore the losses
introduces cubed and squared geometry parameters as stated for the emitter and busbar loss. In the given example
shown in the graph, the number of busbars and the width loss of fingers
was kept constant. As you can see, there is
an optimal finger spacing, in this case, close
to one millimeter. The minimum width and the height of the silver fingers
is determined by process limitation of the typically applied
screen printing process, and as well the rheology
of the silver paste. Aside from front surface, resistive losses in the
base are also present, and there's a small
interface resistance between the semiconductor
and the metal. However, both of these
are minor contributions. Let's try to condense the semiconductor and
solar cell knowledge we have learned so far. In order to achieve the
most efficient solar cell, the overall objective is to maximize the voltage
and the current at the operating point where
the most power is extracted. For the voltage and current
optimization, first of all, the band gap of the semiconductor
material is decisive. For single junction cells, the Shockley-Queisser
limit shows that the optimal band gap is
around 1.4 electron volts. Once a semiconductor
material is chosen, high doping for a p-n
junction solar cell makes the maximum obtainable
voltage approach the potential difference
corresponding to the band gap of
the semiconductor, or in short, the bandgap voltage. On the other hand, doping reduces the lifetime
and the mobility, which reduces the
diffusion lengths. The device thickness
can also be altered, and increasing the thickness increases the light absorption onto the point where almost
all the light is absorbed. However, a thick device requires longer
diffusion lengths, and limits the doping
and thereby the voltage. The front surface of a
solar cell can be textured, and thereby the
reflection is reduced, which increases the current. In extreme cases, the surface
area becomes so large, that good surface
passivation is difficult, and surface recombination
reduces the current. The surface texturing also
enhances the optical paths. Increasing the optical
path length reduces the required minority
carrier diffusion lengths and enables higher doping, and there by an
increased voltage. The material needs to be pure since certain
impurities like carbon and iron creates Shockley read hall traps in the middle
of the band gap. These impurities
increase recombination and therefore
decrease the current. It also decreases
the voltage since the diffusion length has to be maintained with the
help of lower doping. For Shockley-Read-Hall
recombination to be insignificant defect
density is of less than 10 to the 12 per
cubic centimeter is needed, corresponding to 11
n-grade semiconductor. The last parameter to consider here is the current
collection grid, where an increased area reduces the current
due to shading but increases the voltage
slightly since the resistive voltage drop of the front grid is decreased. However, as we will see later, the voltage of the solar cell is also dependent on the current. Let's summarize this figure. Light enters the solar cell
at the front surface and a fraction is reflected and most is transmitted
into the sample. The surface reflection
can be reduced with anti-reflective
coatings and surface texturing giving
reflected light a second, and maybe even a third chance. The light that enters
the material is absorbed according
to Lambert-Beer law, where the light intensity in the material is following
an exponential decay. The absorption
coefficient is strongly wavelength dependent,
and for silicon, the red and near
infrared wavelengths is generally penetrating hundreds
of microns into the sample, and for certain solar cells even escapes on the rare side. Absorption results
in the creation of an electron-hole pair, and then minority carrier of this pair needs to diffuse to the space charge
region and become a majority carrier
before it recombines. The further away from the space charge region the electron-hole
pairs is created, the smaller the chance of
the electron-hole pair to be collected and contribute
to the photocurrent is. Good solar cell Engineering makes the electron-hole pairs to
be created at a distance less than one diffusion length of minority carriers from
the space charge region. The carriers are subsequently collected at the
contact grid where trade-offs between covered area and resistance of the
front grid is made. Finally, a table
displaying the effects on the parameters having voltage
and current was displayed. With these concluding remarks, we have now gone through
the fundamentals of semiconductors and sketch how the
semiconductor technology can be used to make a solar cell.