Welcome to this short video about doping of semiconductors
and the PN junction. So far, you have got a fairly in-depth explanation of the intrinsic
semiconductors and how photon can generate
electron-hole pairs via the band structure in
the semiconductor material. You have also learned how electrons and holes
can recombine via four mechanisms and how current can run in the semiconductor via
diffusion and drift. In this video, you will learn the fundamental concepts
of charge separation, where electron and holes can be extracted from the solar cell. This is done through
the PN junction. In the following video, we will use the basic
concepts to go further into details on balancing the
concepts to maximize efficiency. The content of this
video is doping of semiconductors and
the PN junction. By adding the right
impurity atoms into the semiconductor
crystal lattice, the conductivity and
the Fermi levels can be manipulated by either adding more electrons called n-doping or more holes
called p-doping. This manipulation can be used to create a p-n junction diode, which is one of the simplest
semiconductor devices, even though not really simple, used for solar cells and
integrated circuits. The p-n junction creates an internal electrical field which can be used for
charge separation. The overall concept of
the ideal solar cell is illustrated in the figure where the electron hole pairs are generated in the
absorber material and the electrons are extracted via an electron selective layer and
similar for the holes. n-doping is the result of adding more electrons in
the conduction band of the semiconductor, it can be done replacing and very little fraction
of silicon atoms with group five elements which have five
valence electrons. The band structure
will remain the same, but each group five element
add an additional electron, which will be in the conduction
band at room temperature, and these electrons will
be free charge carriers. We call these atoms donor items since they
donate an electron. The number of free electrons
in the conduction band corresponds to the number of donor atoms for
group five elements. The most commonly
used donor atoms are phosphorus, arsenic,
and antimony. For solar cells,
phosphorus doping is used for n-type doping in
industrial solar cells. Since the donor atoms populates the conduction band
with more electrons, the Fermi level is displaced
towards the conduction band, which is illustrated
in the figure. The change and Fermi
level is a key to make successful charge separation and solar cells using p-n junctions. p-doping is the result of adding more holes in the valence
band of a semiconductor. Replacing a very little
fraction of silicon atoms with group three elements which
have three valence electrons, the band structure
will remain the same, but each group three element
adds an additional hole, which would be in the valence
band at room temperature. These holes will be
free charge carriers. We call these atoms
acceptor atoms since they accept or
rather absorb an electron. The number of free holes in the conduction band corresponds to the number of acceptor atoms
for group three elements. The most commonly used
acceptor atoms is boron, aluminum, gallium, and indium. For solar cells,
boron is used for the p-type doping of
industrial solar cells. Since the acceptor atoms populate the valence
band with more holes, the Fermi level is displaced
towards the valence band, which is illustrated
in the figure. The change in Fermi
level is a key to make successful charge
separation in solar cells. Doping is measured in
doping concentration, which is the number of doping
atoms per cubic centimeter. N-type concentrations
are denoted N_D, for donors, or N_e,
for electrons. Similar p-type doping
is denoted N_A, for acceptors, or N_h, for holes. Sometimes doping
concentrations are also called doping densities. For the dopings to be active, the doping atoms needs to be placed
in the crystal lattice. When they are placed in
the crystal lattice, the electrons
contribute to filling the band and the atoms
are fully ionized. Full ionization is assumed, and in general, this
is a good assumption. Doping concentration range is
typically from 10^12-10^19, per cubic centimeter,
which should be compared to pure silicon, which have 5 times 10^22
atoms per cubic centimeter, and therefore, the
impurity concentration is much below 0.1 percent. The upper limit for doping is called the solid solubility. If the doping is increased beyond the solid solubility
of the semiconductor, the material goes from being a heavily doped
semiconductor to an alloy, being a mixture of
the dopant material and the host material. This material have different
material properties. The solid solubility is
dependent on the dopant. For silicon, most
commonly used dopants, have solid solubilities
in silicon of around 10^20
per cubic centimeter. Doping also decreases the resistivity of
the semiconductor. The higher doping concentration,
the lower resistivity. Recall from the previous
video that the conductivity, which is the inverse
of the resistivity, is proportional to
the product of the charge carrier concentration and the mobility. In the equation here, only the majority
carriers contribute since its concentration are
several orders of magnitude higher than
the minority carriers. Doping around the solid
solubility gives you a typical resistivity of around 10 to the minus four
ohms centimeter, still two orders of magnitude higher than the one of copper. So a doped piece of
silicon is still a bad conductor at room
temperature compared to copper, but the conductivity is as for all other semiconductor
properties, strongly temperature dependent. As the last part of the doping, we need to review the
charge carrier statistics. The changes in the Fermi level can be calculated as the thermal
energy multiplied by the natural logarithm to the
ratio between the density of states at the conduction or valence band and the
doping concentration. The number of free
electrons and holes follows the Boltzmann statistics using
the relevant Fermi levels. The Boltzmann statistics is a simplification of the
Fermi-Dirac statistics, valid when the energy difference
is much larger than kT. The distance from the
conduction or valence band to the Fermi level is plotted on the graph as a black solid line. The higher p- or n-doping, the closer the Fermi level is to the valence or conduction
band respectively. For the intrinsic semiconductors, the number of electrons and
holes was always equal. However, for doped
semiconductors in equilibrium, this is no longer the case. Instead, the product of
free electrons and holes is always equal to the intrinsic carrier
concentration squared. As you saw in the
previous lecture, there were three types of bulk
recombination mechanisms. A silicon with an
indirect band gap or Auger recombination as limiting the lifetime of
minority carriers. Auger recombination is a
free particle process, where the recombination energy is transferred to a third
electron or hole. From the previous video, the rates of the recombination
processes were presented. The Auger recombination
lifetime is inversely proportional to the square
of the free charge carriers, and it is therefore decreasing with increasing
doping concentration. Therefore, also the
diffusion length is inversely proportional to
the doping concentration, and thus, greatly
reduced at high doping. Since the Auger rate constant is almost the same for
holes and electrons, these figures are valid for both. The diffusion length is
plotted as a function of doping concentration using the low n-type dopant
diffusion constant in blue, and using the high
doping diffusion constant for holes
as the red line. In real life, the
diffusion lengths are between these two lines. At low doping level, the electron diffusion length
is closer to the blue, and at high doping levels, the hole diffusion lengths
is closer to the red. We will, in the next video, see the diffusion length sets an important upper limit for
the doping concentration. Now, we have looked
in greater details of the properties of both p
and n-doped semiconductors, and have seen that by
doping semiconductors, especially the Fermi
level, can be manipulated. Now, it's time to use
this knowledge and apply it in order to create
a charge separation. Let's create a PN
junction simply by contacting an N-type
semiconductor with a P-type semiconductor. The Fermi level must be constant
throughout the junction, which is required by
thermal equilibrium. The conduction and valence bands bends and creates a
built in potential. A so-called space charge
region is created. In the N-region of the
space charge region, there are more electrons than in the P-region, and therefore, electrons diffuses
to the P-region and recombine with the holes. A similar but opposite
concentration difference exists for holes while the
hole diffuses to the N-region, where they recombine
with the electrons. From the excess charges
electrical fields are created, creating a drift
current that cancels the diffusion currents and
enables charge neutrality. The differences in Fermi levels
relative to the valence or conduction band creates a
so-called Build in potential. The build in potential helps
separating the charges. and is also the upper limit for the voltage of a solar cell. The build in potential
can be calculated from the Fermi level displacement
that arises from the doping. What happens if we forward
bias a P-N junction? If the applied voltage goes
below the built-in voltage, the built-in voltage prevent excess electrons moving
to the p-region. The space charge
region is reduced, and there is a very small
current in the diode. On the other hand, if the voltage is above build-in voltage, the built-in voltage is almost neutralized and the space charge region
almost disappears. In this case, the diode becomes a conductor with a large current. Obviously, if we reverse
bias the junction, the space charge region enlarges and only a minimal
reverse current flows. If the P-N junction is
severely reverse biased, the breakdown voltage is reached and the P-N junction starts
reverse flow of current. Actually, similar
to a diode since the P-N junction is
basically a diode. Let's take a closer look at
the space charge region. The charges from the fixed
uncompensated atoms, which arises due to
the electron and hole diffusion creates
an electrical field. This electrical field is zero outside the space charge region and increases
numerically linearly towards the N and P region. Exactly at the junction, the field has its
maximum numerical value. By integrating the field over
the space charge region, the built-in potential
can also be determined. We will later see
that the width of the space charge region is
important as this field separates the charges and is decreasing with increasing
doping concentrations. Further, charge neutrality
requires that the product of the doping concentration
and the width of the respective regions
must be equal. Now the most important
physics has been presented, which is laying a
solid foundation for understanding the physics
of the solar cell. Before we end this video, we'll take a brief look at the current -voltage
relationship. In the dark condition the current voltage
relationship can be derived knowing that at the zero bias that diffusion current
cancels the drift current. Further using that
the drift current is generated by the electric
field in the junction. The solution to the
obtained differential equation after applying appropriate
boundary conditions, is the exponential current
voltage relationship, as stated in the equation. This equation is called the Shockley equation
and its describing the behavior that we saw on the forward and reverse
bias in the dark. With a small so-called
saturation current below the threshold voltage and
otherwise conduction. If the junction is illuminated, electron-hole pairs are
generated and a photo current is running in the
opposite direction of the saturation current. An expression for the reverse saturation current is given. As you can see, it decreases with increasing doping densities. The temperature
dependence, especially through the intrinsic
carrier concentration, makes the reverse saturation current increase
with temperature. Let's conclude this video. In this video, we have
introduced N and P doping, where excess electrons
and holes can be added to the conduction and valence band by replacing
a few silicon atoms with group 5 and 3 elements. The additional charge carriers
moves the Fermi-level toward the band edges and
increases the conductivity. We also saw that Auger recombination is
limiting diffusion length, which is decreasing with
increasing doping concentration. We also created the P-N junction, where an n-type semiconductor is connected with a
p-type semiconductor. Since the Fermi-level must be constant throughout the junction, a built-in potential is created. Further concentration
gradients makes electron diffused to the
p-region and vice versa. The uncompensated charges create an electric field that
generates an opposite current. In equilibrium, these cancel. The electric field is in the so called space
charge region and outside the space charge
region, there in no field. When applying a
small forward bias, a small current is flowing, which is the reverse
saturation current. When the applied voltage is higher than the built-in voltage, the junction starts
to conduct current. For a reverse bias, the junction general
prevents flow of current until the
breakdown voltage is exceeded generally at
high reverse voltages. When the junction is illuminated, a photo-current is created in the opposite direction as a
reverse saturation current. This current is facilitated
by the charge separation from the P-N junctions
built-in electric field. Now we have finished
semiconductor physics and will in the next
video look at how these principles are applied
in a simple solar cell.